Revamp RPC admin guide (#1392)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/rpc/admin-guide/development.mdx

---
title: Development
sidebar_position: 25
---

For local development, we recommend [downloading](https://hub.docker.com/r/stellar/quickstart) and running a local instance via [Docker Quickstart](https://github.com/stellar/quickstart) and running a local network or communicating with a live development [Testnet].

:::caution

> We don't recommend running the Quickstart image in production. See the [deploy your own RPC instance](#deploy-your-own-rpc-instance) section.

Reviewer: This link doesn't go anywhere

:::

The Quickstart image with the RPC service can run on a standard laptop with 8GB of RAM and has minimal storage and CPU requirements. It is a single container that runs everything you need to test against a fully featured network. It contains:

- [Stellar Core] - Node software that runs the network, coordinates consensus, and finalizes ledgers.
- [Stellar RPC] server - JSON RPC server for interacting with Soroban contracts.
- [Horizon server] - HTTP API for accessing ledger state and historical transactions.
- [Friendbot server] - HTTP API for creating and funding new accounts on test networks.

[Stellar Core]: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-core
[Stellar RPC]: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/tree/main
[Horizon server]: https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/master/services/horizon
[Friendbot server]: https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/master/services/friendbot

### Standalone

To run a local standalone network with the Stellar Quickstart Docker image, run the following command:

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    --name stellar \
    stellar/quickstart:testing \
    --local \

>     --enable-soroban-rpc

Reviewer: This is not really related to the docs, but can you make an issue to track changing this flag in quickstart to `--enable-stellar-rpc`

Reviewer 2: That's already a thing - this line can just be updated :+1:

```

> Once the image is started, you can check its status by querying the Horizon API:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the image is started, you can check RPC status by querying the health check endpoint:
```

```bash

> curl "http://localhost:8000"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
curl --location 'http://localhost:8000/soroban/rpc' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
      "jsonrpc":"2.0",
      "id":2, 
      "method":"getHealth"
      }'
```

:::caution

We don't recommend running the Quickstart image in production. See the [deploy your own RPC instance](./installing.mdx) section.

:::

The Quickstart image with the RPC service can run on a standard laptop with 8GB of RAM and has minimal storage and CPU requirements. It is a single container that runs everything you need to test against a fully featured network. It contains:

- [Stellar Core] - Node software that runs the network, coordinates consensus, and finalizes ledgers.
- [Stellar RPC] server - JSON RPC server for interacting with Soroban contracts.
- [Horizon server] - HTTP API for accessing ledger state and historical transactions.
- [Friendbot server] - HTTP API for creating and funding new accounts on test networks.

[Stellar Core]: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-core
[Stellar RPC]: https://github.com/stellar/stellar-rpc/tree/main
[Horizon server]: https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/master/services/horizon

> [Friendbot server]: https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/master/services/friendbot

Reviewer 4: nit: this level of detail seems unnecessary here.  Quickstart guide linked previously already covers it.

Now you can replace `--network standalone` with `--network testnet` (or whatever you named it) in all your commands that need a network, like the `deploy` and `invoke` commands shown above.

### Futurenet

You can also develop your Soroban contracts against the Futurenet network. You may choose this if you want to test more bleeding-edge features that haven't made it to the Testnet yet. Running your own Futurenet node works just like running a Testnet node, as described above.

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    --name stellar \
    stellar/quickstart:future \
    --futurenet \
    --enable-stellar-rpc
```

And you'll want to configure it for use with the `--network` flag in Stellar CLI:

```bash
stellar network add futurenet \
    --rpc-url "http://localhost:8000/rpc" \
    --network-passphrase "Test SDF Future Network ; October 2022"
```

Replace `futurenet` in that command with the name of your choice, if you want to leave the name `futurenet` available for use with a public RPC provider (see below). Or make clever use of `--global` configs for public providers and local configs (made with the undecorated `network add` command above) for local nodes.

> Now you can replace `--network standalone` with `--network futurenet` (or whatever you named it) in all your commands that need a network, like the `deploy` and `invoke` commands shown above.

Reviewer 4: nit: This feels a bit repetitive considering the standalone section above covers it pretty well. If the only differences are the flag names and the image tag name, this could be removed or condensed into a single line.
